content/en/community/hackathons/usoc22/contributing-to-unikraft/index.md, before:

---
title: "Session 05: Contributing to Unikraft"
linkTitle: "05. Contributing to Unikraft"
weigth: 50
---

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/intro.md" markdown="true" >}}

## Reminders

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Reminders.md" markdown="true" >}}

## Overview

### Support Files

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Overview_Support-Files.md" markdown="true" >}}

### Git Structure

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Overview_Git-Structure.md" markdown="true" >}}

### Example of External Library

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Overview_Example-of-External-Library.md" markdown="true" >}}

### Warm-Up

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Overview_Warm-Up.md" markdown="true" >}}

## Summary

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Summary.md" markdown="true" >}}

## Practical Work

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work.md" markdown="true" >}}

### Support Files

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_Support-Files.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 00. Prepare

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_00.-Prepare.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 01. Declare Library Identifier

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_01.-Declare-Library-Identifier.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 02. Register it to the Build System

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_02.-Register-it-to-the-Build-System.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 03. Set its URL

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_03.-Set-its-URL.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 04. Helper Variables

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_04.-Helper-Variables.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 05. Headers Location

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_05.-Headers-Location.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 06. Add Sources

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_06.-Add-Sources.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 07. Additional Requirements

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_07.-Additional-Requirements.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 08. Intermediary Check

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_08.-Intermediary-Check.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 09. Add Test Config Variables

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_09.-Add-Test-Config-Variables.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 10. Register Test Sources

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_10.-Register-Test-Sources.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 11. Wrapper Glue

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_11.-Wrapper-Glue.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 12. Register Glue Code

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_12.-Register-Glue-Code.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 13. Final Verification

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_13.-Final-Verification.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 14. Give Us Feedback

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_14.-Give-Us-Feedback.md" markdown="true" >}}

## Further Reading

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Further-Reading.md" markdown="true" >}}

Commit message:

hack/usoc22: Update session 05 - Contributing
Update the contents of sessions/contributing-to-unikraft.
Fix broken links created by the sessions migration and
add more information into the session content.

Signed-off-by: Stefan Jumarea <stefanjumarea02@gmail.com>

content/en/community/hackathons/usoc22/contributing-to-unikraft/index.md, after:

---
title: "Session 05: Contributing to Unikraft"
linkTitle: "05. Contributing to Unikraft"
weigth: 50
---

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/intro.md" markdown="true" >}}

## Reminders

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Reminders.md" markdown="true" >}}

## Overview

### Support Files

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Overview_Support-Files.md" markdown="true" >}}

### Git Structure

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Overview_Git-Structure.md" markdown="true" >}}

### Example of External Library

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Overview_Example-of-External-Library.md" markdown="true" >}}

### Warm-Up

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Overview_Warm-Up.md" markdown="true" >}}

## Summary

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Summary.md" markdown="true" >}}

## Practical Work

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work.md" markdown="true" >}}

### Support Files

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_Support-Files.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 00. Prepare

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_00.-Prepare.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 01. Declare Library Identifier

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_01.-Declare-Library-Identifier.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 02. Register it to the Build System

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_02.-Register-it-to-the-Build-System.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 03. Set its URL

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_03.-Set-its-URL.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 04. Helper Variables

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_04.-Helper-Variables.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 05. Headers Location

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_05.-Headers-Location.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 06. Add Sources

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_06.-Add-Sources.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 07. Additional Requirements

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_07.-Additional-Requirements.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 08. Intermediary Check

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_08.-Intermediary-Check.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 09. Add Test Config Variables

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_09.-Add-Test-Config-Variables.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 10. Register Test Sources

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_10.-Register-Test-Sources.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 11. Wrapper Glue

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_11.-Wrapper-Glue.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 12. Register Glue Code

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_12.-Register-Glue-Code.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 13. Final Verification

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Practical-Work_13.-Final-Verification.md" markdown="true" >}}

### 14. Give Us Feedback

We want to know how to make the next sessions better.
For this we need your [feedback](https://forms.gle/LyiK2UrnuQu3U6j79).
Thank you!

## Further Reading

{{< readfile file="/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Further-Reading.md" markdown="true" >}}
