content/en/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Reminders.md, before:

From earlier sessions we saw that we can add an external library as a dependency for an application by appending it to the `$LIBS` variable of the application's `Makefile`:

```
LIBS := $(UK_LIBS)/my_lib
```

Having done that, we can then select it in the menuconfig interface in order to be included in the build process.

Running an unikernel built for `kvm` can be done using the `qemu` command as follows:

```
$ qemu-system-x86_64 -kernel unikraft_unikernel -nographic
```

The `-nographic` argument redirects the output generated by the unikernel to the console.

In [Session 02: Behind the Scenes](content/en/docs/session/02-behind-scenes/index.md) we saw that there are two types of libraries:

* **internal**, which are generally part of the kernel / core (schedulers, file systems, etc.);
* **external**: which generally provide user space-level functionalities

The external libraries should be placed in the `$UK_LIBS` folder, which is by default `$UK_WORKDIR/libs`, and the applications should be placed in the `$UK_APPS` folder, which is by default `$UK_WORKDIR/apps`.

Commit message:

hack/usoc22: Update session 05 - Contributing
Update the contents of sessions/contributing-to-unikraft.
Fix broken links created by the sessions migration and
add more information into the session content.

Signed-off-by: Stefan Jumarea <stefanjumarea02@gmail.com>

content/en/community/hackathons/sessions/contributing-to-unikraft/content/Reminders.md, after:

From earlier sessions, we saw that we can add an external library as a dependency for an application by appending it to the `$LIBS` variable in the application's `Makefile`:

```make
LIBS := $(UK_LIBS)/my_lib
```

Having done that, we can then select it in the menuconfig interface in order for the library to be included in the build process.

Running an unikernel built for `kvm` can be done using the `qemu` command as follows:

```make
$ qemu-system-x86_64 -kernel unikraft_unikernel -nographic
```

The `-nographic` argument redirects the output generated by the unikernel to the console.

In [Session 02: Behind the Scenes](community/hackathons/sessions/behind-scenes/) we saw that there are two types of libraries:

* **internal**, which are generally part of the kernel / core (schedulers, file systems, etc.);
* **external**: which mostly provide user space-level functionalities

The external libraries should be placed in the `$UK_LIBS` folder, which is by default `$UK_WORKDIR/libs`, and the applications should be placed in the `$UK_APPS` folder, which is by default `$UK_WORKDIR/apps`.

The default working directory structure looks like this:
```text
|-- apps - This is where you would normally place existing app builds
|-- archs - Here we place our custom arch's files
|-- libs - This is where the build system looks for external library pool sources
|-- plats - The files for our custom plats are placed here
`-- unikraft - The core source code of the Unikraft Unikernel
```

and the relevant environment variables regarding the working directories are:
| Environment Variable |                       Purpouse                               |         Default        |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------- |
| `UK_WORKDIR`         | The root directory, where all unikraft components are stored | ---------------------- |
| `UK_ROOT`            | The directory for Unikraft's core source code                | `$UK_WORKDIR/unikraft` |
| `UK_LIBS`            | The directory of all the external Unikraft libraries         | `$UK_WORKDIR/libs`     |
| `UK_APPS`            | The directory of all the template applications               | `$UK_WORKDIR/apps`     |
